MADesigner v1.0

The general purpose of this project is to build up a python library to enable
writing simply python scripts that generate model airplane plans.  The 
initial vision includes:

- processing/blending/smoothing airfoils
- cutting out spars, stringers, sheeting, lightening holes, etc. from wing ribs
- laying out top down "plans" for the major aircraft subassemblies
- generating cut files that could be handed to a laser cutter (or cnc machine)
- generating surface "skins" that could be handed to a cnc machine for cutting
  molds
- generating 3d models for importing into flight simulators.

Hopefully this next statement will become quickly out dated, but this is a
very young project and does not have all the capabilities yet that are listed
as goals.  I decided to "publish" the project publicly because there are a
few things working that could be an interesting curiousity or idea generator
for others.


Here's a quick FAQ (although no one has yet asked me any questions, so I'm 
just trying to anticipate what people might be thinking.)

Q: Are you a moron?  Haven't you hear of profili (or "xxx" cad program)???

Yes and I've probably heard of the suggested tool too. :-)


Q: So why write python scripts to generate model aircraft designs?

Scripted design is a different mind set.  Consider that if the scripts are
setup well and I want to make a small tweak (like increase the wing chord size
by a 1/2 inch, or try a slightly different airfoil), then in my script it is a
small tweak, I rerun the script and out pops all the new cut files and new 
plans.  If I wanted to make this change in a traditional cad program I might
have to spend all evening making the same small change to a bazillion parts
since everything is linked together and these small tweaks tend to have a large
cascading effect.  But you do give up the ability to visually manipulate the
design.  However, you can quickly run the script and view the output, so there
is some visual feedback in the process.

Another reason is when you run up against the limit of what a tool like
"profili" is able to offer you through it's gui interface, then what do you
do?  (a) do you live within the constraints of the gui? (b) use a scripting
system that lets you steer off the roads and do your own clever/crazy things?


Q: Still that sounds like a lot of effort for something no one else will 
probably ever use.

Yes again, but this is project is a nice mental break from my daily grind.
I'm having fun and teaching myself python at the same time.  And besides, I
always wanted to be an aerospace engineer when I grew up.


Q: Can your python design scripts do "xyz"

Yes it's python so you can add "xyz" feature yourself!  Ok, but more seriously
I am building up a core collection of basic design and assembly features.  This
is for fun so I'm not really taking requests, but if it's an easy thing to add
or something that sounds interesting to tackle, I might be interested.

